{\rtf1\ansi\deff0{\fonttbl{\f0 Times New Roman;}}\fs24\qr Koki Kato\par \qr Politics Through Film \u8212? Prof. Jose Rodolfo Aviles\par \qr 31 May 2026\par \qc\b\fs28 Perfect Safety as Permanent Emergency in Minority Report\b0\fs24\par \ql \qj Steven Spielberg's Minority Report (2002) is often read as a thriller about predicting crime, but its sharpest political argument concerns why a free public would willingly surrender its freedom. My claim is that the film dramatizes how the promise of \u8220?perfect safety\u8221? converts an exceptional emergency into a permanent condition of governance, and that citizens accept this not through coercion but through the seductive convenience of a surveillance that is indistinguishable from everyday life.\par \qj The film's most important political insight is that surveillance in Washington's Precrime society is not an external imposition but an infrastructure. Retinal scanners greet citizens on subways, in stores, and on the street; the personalized advertisements that call John Anderton by name reveal that the apparatus of recognition is already total before the state ever uses it. Because being watched is fused with shopping, commuting, and consuming, citizens \u8220?police themselves\u8221? in advance: identity is continuously broadcast, so deviation becomes nearly unthinkable. Discipline here is ambient rather than imposed, which is precisely why it feels like freedom.\par \qj This same fusion blurs the line between corporate and state authority. The advertising data that hails consumers and the biometric data that tracks suspects flow through the same channels; commercial recognition and political surveillance are technically identical. Authority is therefore diffuse\u8212?no single sovereign decides who is watched, because watching is simply the medium in which the city operates. The state can borrow corporate intimacy, and corporations inherit the state's reach.\par \qj What ultimately legitimizes the suspension of due process is the metric of \u8220?perfect safety.\u8221? Precrime promises zero murders, and against the absolute value of a saved life, civil liberties appear merely procedural and even selfish. Yet the film exposes the cost: the system jails people for acts they have not committed, and the existence of the \u8220?minority report\u8221? proves the future is not fixed. Once the state claims to manage life itself, every doubt becomes an intolerable risk, so the emergency can never end.\par \qj Spielberg's warning, then, is not chiefly about technology but about justification. A society that accepts perfect safety as its highest political good has already agreed to be governed by permanent suspicion\u8212?and will mistake that suspicion for peace.\par }